when he gets the call to action , however , he quickly changes gears and becomes the man we expect him to be . 
soon , his character has to negotiate not only with roman , but also with the swat commander ( david morse ) who is itching to send in a team to take roman out , all the while keeping wary of the fbi agents who are waiting to take over the operation , should negotiations fail . 
this complex set of pressures are reflected well in sabian the negotiator and spacey the actor . 
as the second protagonist , spacey measures up nicely . 
gray really lucked out with this cast . 
david morse as commander beck , ron rifkin as commander frost , and john spencer as police chief al travis are all more than competent , and can hold their own in scenes with jackson and spacey . 
the only problem is the bit of typecasting that results from these choices : morse played a similar role in the rock , rifkin played the d . a . 
in l . a . confidential , and spencer played a police detective in cop land . 
with the level of acting , however , this can be forgiven . 
also in the supporting cast , paul giamatti as rudy , one of the hostages , is notable for the comic relief he provides . 
his character is initially so slimy , and giamatti himself just looks so shifty , that you expect to laugh before he even says anything . 
fortunately , this doesn't distract from the seriousness of the rest of the film , but instead provides some nice breathers from the level of tension which gray manages to sustain throughout . 
j . t . walsh , as the suspicious internal affairs inspector , clocks in with one of his final performances . 
sadly , the talented but underrated actor passed away in late february of this year , and the soon to be released pleasantville will mark his last film . 
walsh appeared in dozens of movies such as good morning vietnam , backdraft , and nixon . 
for one of his best performances , check out sling blade , in which he plays a mental patient sharing a ward with billy bob thornton . 
when jack nicholson accepted his best actor oscar in march , walsh was one of the men to whom he credited his success ( the actors performed together in a few good men ) . 
the negotiator is actually dedicated to walsh , and while inspector niebaum may not have been his best role , it certainly characterizes the type of character for which walsh had become most famous for playing . 
in the end , the negotiator has a plotline that parallels it's reality . 
we're served with the premise that two equally deft negotiators are battling each other to resolve the conflict in the manner which will suit each of them best . 
as an audience , we're also given a situation where two wonderfully talented actors are thrown into a movie , and we'd like to see if one will dominate the film . 
both provide some pretty good entertainment . 
plot : a young man who loves heavy metal music and especially the band steel dragon , to whom he's devoted a tribute band in which he sings , gets launched into stardom when the real group get rid of their lead singer and call on him to take his place . 
critique : i'm a sucker for movies like this . 
a young man with a humble background and lofty dreams , works hard , devotes the time , the energy and the patience , and ultimately hits it big-time . 
in the case of this film , our boy loves a certain heavy metal band and as luck would have it ( yup , luck always finds its way into these types of equations , although generally tied very closely to hard work ) , they need a new singer . 
his entry and adaptation to the whole " rock 'n roll " lifestyle fills the rest of the film and is really fun to watch . 
although i will preface this by saying that one thing that would definitely enhance your appreciation for this film is your own love ( or past love ) of heavy metal music and the whole scene around it . 
metal was one of my first loves as a teen and even though the genre of music isn't that prominent anymore , i still check out my motley crue , twisted sister and anthrax cds every now and again . 
that's not to say that you won't like this film if you don't like the music , but the music and live performances from the band , play a big part in the movie , and i for one , had a blast watching and listening to it all . 
but the even greater draw in this film is the standout performance given here by mark wahlberg . 
wow , hand this fella some major props , as he totally becomes this heavy metal geek/god ( incidentally , metal god was the film's original title , and a much better one if you ask me ) . 
he is this movie and i was quite taken by his character pretty much the whole way through . 
he came off like a regular guy with extremely passionate goals and work ethic , who was willing to do anything in order to fulfill his dreams . 
aniston was also surprisingly good as the girlfriend ( and the romance angle between them was sweet ) , but she didn't pull me in hard enough during their emotional scenes . 
i was also impressed by some of the " real " musicians who played in the film ( zakk wylde from ozzy osbourne , jeff pilson from dokken , stephan jenkins from third eye blind , blas elias from slaughter ) , but actor dominic west as kirk cuddy made the biggest impression among the band members . 
it's to note that this film was based on a real-life tale of a young man who used to sing in a judas priest cover band and then went on to become their actual singer ( their original singer also admitted to being gay , as in this film ) . 
just for the record , i'm certainly not recommending this film for its originality or surprise elements , since most of this stuff has already been covered in some way or another in other movies , but because it's a fun , uplifting , well-paced movie with a solid central showing by wahlberg and energetic live performances . 
oh yeah , and for those who dig the " heavier " side of music , the soundtrack also rocks ! ! 
you see . . . dreams 
can come true . . . 
where's joblo coming from ? 
almost famous ( 8/10 ) - blow ( 8/10 ) - boogie nights ( 9/10 ) - detroit rock city ( 8/10 ) - girlfight ( 6/10 ) - goodfellas ( 10/10 ) 
carry on matron is the last great carry-on film in my opinion . 
made in 1972 , it still features most of the regulars of this genre . 
sid james plays the head of a gang of crooks intent on stealing contraceptive pills from the local maternity hospital and selling them off to make a profit , kenneth williams is sir bernard cutting , head of the hospital but also a hypochondriac , hattie jacques re-takes her role as matron , and charles hawtrey is the psychiatrist dr . goode . 
the jokes come in fast and so do the laughs , with humorous antics between the matron and sir bernard . 
this time , williams is after matron ( jacques ) when he needs to prove himself that he is a man after visiting dr . goode . 
the doctor ( hawtrey ) is sworn to secrecy : - " i assure you , that anything you say to me today will go in one ear and straight out of the other ! " 
bernard thinks he is having a sex change and needs to prove himself . 
there are great cameos from joan sims , an expectant mother who is many weeks overdue and is eating constantly in every scene , and from kenneth connor as the expectant father who still thinks he's at work ( at the railway station ) . 
sid james' gang including cyril his son ( kenneth cope ) try to find out where the pills are by getting cyril to dress up as a nurse and live in at the nurses home . 
he has to share a room with nurse ball ( barbara windsor ) and she soon sees through him ! 
the film ends with the attempted robbery of the hospital's pills with panic ensuing . 
there are good performances by hattie jacques as the matron , however her character seems a little more subdued and quieter than her previous 'matron's' . 
williams is , as usual , on top form , but sid james isn't given a very good part in this movie and i would forgive anyone to forget that he was in the movie at all . 
the same does not go for charles hawtrey , for although he only first appears in the movie after 30 minutes gone and has scarce screen time , he seems to steal every scene he is in . 
by not making use of sid james and barbara windsor's talent to full effect , the film seems to flounder , but it certainly makes up for it with it's good storyline and it's other appealing characters . 
this film is genuinely funny and i could watch it again and again and not get bored ! 
the ultimate match up between good and evil , " the untouchables " is an excellent movie because it looks deeper into an already examined rivalry . 
based on the 1959 television show of the same title , " the untouchables " may be an exaggeration of the real life events that took place , but it fits together perfectly with some beautifully filmed action sequences , some excellent acting , a memorable score , and a clever script . 
the film takes place in chicago during the prohibition era where mobsters led by the ruthless al capone run an underground market of liquor to the demanding public . 
elliot ness and a small force of men known as the untouchables attempt the impossible by trying to stop capone and trying to maintain peace and order . 
however , as ness soon learns , in order to stabilize peace , you have to bend a few laws . 
the fact that capone is evil is very apparent from the first few scenes . 
the film begins with capone , played perfectly by deniro , declaring that he is not a violent man and he is a firm believer in following all laws . 
the film then quickly transfers to the next scene in which one of capone's men bombs a restaurant that contains many innocent people including a little girl . 
from this point we know capone is evil , not only because he kills without hesitation , but also because he is a lying bastard . 
right from the first five minutes of the film , de palma has created a hatred towards capone and he shows that this man must be brought down at all costs . 
this developed hatred is before the film's hero , ness , is even introduced . 
i found this approach to be very clever because in a small duration of time there is a great amount of admiration for ness and an equal amount of hatred for capone . 
the film only gets better from this point . 
with the formation of the untouchables , there is a group of men wearing long , dark overcoats and hats . 
they walk in unison and they only look forward . 
as they walk down the streets they are observed and feared by citizens . 
holding shot guns and pistols in their hands to stop criminals , this image of vigilantes must have influenced future films . 
one that comes to mind is " the matrix " when neo , morpheus , trinity , and the rest of the gang first come into the virtual world . 
wearing more futuristic outfits of the same 1930's style , the similarities between these two are countless . 
 " the untouchables " has some of the hippest , bravest heroes in any action film . 
the four members were the only ones willing to go against capone's army . 
each member of this special group also had their own characteristics that separated them from others . 
elliot ness , played with perfect ingenuity by kevin costner , is a character that surely grows during the course of the film . 
he begins as a man who is determined to follow all laws no matter how unfair they may be . 
however , as the film develops so does ness . 
his beliefs involving the law are shattered when he realizes that those he trusted are actually members of the other side . 
he also begins to lose his stability when his adversaries begin to murder his friends . 
his anger becomes so thunderous that he can no longer hold it in . 
sean connery , who won an academy award for best supporting actor in his role , plays malone , an aging cop who decides to make one final run as a member of the untouchables . 
malone acts as a mentor to ness . 
he teaches him " the chicago way " to do things ; when they attack with a knife , you attack with a gun . 
connery plays his character with the exact amount of wit and experience needed . 
andy garcia does a wonderful job as george stone , a young man who is just becoming a police officer . 
as ness grows , he begins to teach stone some valuable lessons that malone once taught him . 
charles martin smith is also fantastic as the final member who attempts to use an income tax offense against capone . 
smith is perfect for his role as he adds some valuable comic relief to the film . 
the action scenes are also some of the most beautifully choreographed i have ever seen . 
also very similar to " the matrix , " they are exciting and intense . 
>from a western-like battle to the famous confrontation at the train station steps , the scenes are well thought out and well executed . 
the score during these scenes ingeniously adds to the excitement . 
its pounding drum beats act as a rhythm for the actors . 
the combination of image and music is very impressive and also very effective . 
although the real life untouchables may have been excessively glorified , this film is pure entertainment and contains a unique blend of great acting , great directing , and great action . 
some scenes ( capone and the baseball bat , the train station ) have stuck in my mind for years and seeing them again will only make them more vivid . 
having not seen , " who framed roger rabbit " in over 10 years , and not remembering much besides that i liked it then , i decided to rent it recently . 
watching it i was struck by just how brilliant a film it is . 
aside from the fact that it's a milestone in animation in movies ( it's the first film to combine real actors and cartoon characters , have them interact , and make it convincingly real ) and a great entertainment it's also quite an effective comedy/mystery . 
while the plot may be somewhat familiar the characters are original , especially baby herman , and watching them together is a lot of fun . 
the story begins in hollywood in 1947 . 
cartoon star roger rabbit is blowing takes and having trouble keeping his mind on work , so hard-boiled private detective eddie valiant ( bob hoskins ) is called in by studio head r . k . 
maroon ( alan tilvern ) to try to help get roger's mind back on work . 
maroon thinks that roger's wife , jessica's , possible unfaithfulness to him might be the cause of distraction and tells eddie to get some photos of her in the act before it costs him any more money in reshoots . 
valiant takes some photos of jessica playing , `patty cake' with marvin acme ( stubby kaye ) , the owner of toontown ( where all of the cartoon characters live ) and takes them to maroon . 
upon seeing them , roger is emotionally destroyed and soon after acme is found dead and roger rabbit is the prime suspect . 
the rest of the movie follows valiant and roger as they run around town ( and eventually toontown ) trying to clear roger's good name . 
along the way they meet judge doom ( christopher lloyd ) a judge-jury-and executioner type who's out to get roger and has discovered the one and only way to kill a `toon . ' 
`who framed roger rabbit' won 4 academy awards including a special achievement award for richard williams for animation direction and creation of the cartoon characters ( williams and his teams went through the film frame by frame and hand drew the cartoon characters in ) . 
director robert zemekis must be given an equal amount of praise for overseeing the entire production , which included hundreds of animators . 
also bob hoskins' performance should be credited . 
he , in addition to the rest of the human cast , finds the right note to play in all of the scenes with his cartoon co-stars . 
according to the internet movie database , hoskins studied his young daughter to learn how to act with imaginary characters and i guess his hard work paid off . 
`who framed roger rabbit' is a rare film . 
one that not only presented a great challenge to the filmmakers but one that can be enjoyed by the whole family ( although some very young viewers may be a little scared by judge doom ) . 
do yourself a favor and rent it , `p-p-p-p-please . " 
there's something about ben stiller that makes him a popular choice among casting directors these days . 
stiller currently has three projects in circulation , and what other actor can lay claim to that ? 
he's in " there's something about mary , " which i * still * haven't seen . 
and he's in the acerbic " your friends & neighbors , " playing a talkative , sexually-frustrated drama coach called jerri . 
now there's " permanent midnight , " in which stiller plays another jerry , this one a heroin-addicted television writer , last name stahl . 
there's also something about this industry that pushes bankable stars like stiller into doing drug-addiction pictures the minute they've proved themselves commercially . 
ewan mcgregor springs to mind who , after successful turns in " emma " and " brassed off , " received greater respect and admiration for his mind-blowing realization as renton in danny boyle's transatlantic junk-fest , " trainspotting . " 
the philosophy appears to be a simple one : if you want 'em to be taken seriously , make 'em do drugs . 
 " permanent midnight " is based on the true life experiences of jerry stahl , a successful hollywood writer who , in the mid-eighties , had a $5 , 000-a-week job churning out plotlines for disposable tv sitcoms and a $6 , 000-a-week heroin habit . 
a habit , in stahl's own words , " the size of utah . " 
as stahl , stiller contributes a commanding performance . 
unlike " trainspotting , " which was successful in having it both ways by chronicling both the highs and the lows of heroin abuse , " permanent midnight " instead focuses on the concept of drug addiction as maintenance . 
one of the earliest observations in the film is a casual reference to " naked lunch " author william s . burroughs who , when asked why he shoots up first thing in the morning responds , " so i can shave . " 
stahl rarely appears to be puncturing veins for the thrill of it all in " permanent midnight " ; it's so he can talk to his mother on the phone , show up for work on time , even pay his bills . 
while the film itself occasionally wobbles around along with stahl , the writing ( adapted from stahl's autobiography by director david veloz ) is controlled and pointed . 
 " permanent midnight " shows how stahl moved from new york to l . a . to--again in the author's words-- " escape the drug scene " ( yeah , right ) ; why he entered into a convenient marriage with a british tv exec ( elizabeth hurley , so impossibly polite you'd swear her single profanity was dubbed ) ; and that he conceived a child in between his random hirings and firings . 
stahl narrates all this in a motel bedroom to a sympathetic lover called kitty ( norristown's own maria bello ) with whom he spent some rehab time . 
janeane garofalo is wasted--and miscast--as a heavily-bespectacled hollywood talent agent who fails to get her hooks into the doped-up wordsmith , and that's stahl himself playing a jaded clinic counselor . 
stiller , unshaven ( burroughs take note ) and with lots of mascara around the eyes , has stahl stumble through the film looking like a train wreck but , to his credit , never once pushes his pill-popping , needle-jabbing performance over the top . 
the ubiquitous stiller is the reason to see " permanent midnight " ; a dark , comic , and strangely absorbing study of assisted living . 
by phil curtolo mel gibson ( braveheart ) gave a gripping performance as the father of a young kidnapped boy in ron howard's ransom . 
gibson plays tom mullen , a wealthy business tycoon whose past actions are coming back to haunt him as a deranged psychopath , played by gary sinise ( forrest gump ) , and his band of low-life thugs kidnap his only son for $2 million . 
tom and his wife , kate , played by rene russo ( tin cup ) were instructed not to inform the police , but they contacted the fbi . 
minutes later , an elite team of agents led by delroy lindo ( broken arrow ) are in tom's house and wiring every phone . 
the plot sounds average , just like most other kidnap movies that you've already seen , and it was nothing more than that . 
that is until about half-way through the movie . 
suddenly , tom goes to the fox 5 news room and makes a live broadcast saying , " this is your ransom . 
but this is as close as you will ever get to it . 
instead , i am offering this money as a reward on your head , dead or alive . " 
at this point , the plot thickened , and the unusually slow start of the film turned into a suspense-filled action film with great stunts . 
the last half of the film is very well done . 
another thing that carries this film are the superb performances by gibson and sinise , as they collide in a game of wits over their cellular phones for most of the movie . 
owen gleiberman of entertainment weekly commented on the subject : " it makes you wonder what kidnappers did before cell phones . " 
before this movie , sinise played mostly " good guys , " first in of mice & men , then in forrest gump , and most recently , in apollo 13 . 
but he was surprisingly devilish and cold in his portrayal of a cop-gone-bad . 
gibson , of course , was just being gibson , in an oscar-worthy performance . 
although most of the scenes were quite predictable , ransom is a very entertaining and suspenseful film . 
 , 
one can not observe a star trek movie and expect to see serious science fiction . 
the purpose of star trek is to provide flashy , innocent fun . 
sometimes the stories are compelling . 
sometimes they're not . 
but , with the exception of the first film in the series ( which provides little more than endless shots of amazed faces ) , i've never been bored by any of the enterprise's numerous missions . 
star trek : insurrection is no exception . 
the film has gotten some negative reviews ( a friend of mine actually thinks it's the worst in the series ) , but i'm not really sure why . 
it's an exciting , often hilarious movie that engaged me and left me ready for the next star trek film . 
some say it's a bit too light , and more of a long episode than a film . 
others say the special effects are cheesy and that it's boring . 
i simply enjoyed the film . 
insurrection , which is the second film to feature strictly the next generation cast , introduces us to a race of people called the ba'ku ; the ba'ku are very old ( most of them are about three hundred years old ) , but they actually appear younger with age due to strange radiation in the rings of their planet . 
of course , these peaceful people can't horde this fountain of youth all for themselves ? leave it up to their archenemies , the son'a , led by ru'afo ( f . 
murray abraham ) , to mess everything up . 
the son'a , who are horribly disfigured and rely on daily reconstructive surgery to be aesthetically acceptable , strike a deal with the federation to move the ba'ku elsewhere and exploit the secret to keep their race from dying . 
that's when captain picard ( patrick stewart ) steps in : he realizes that moving the ba'ku would kill them ( it also helps that he falls in love with a ba'ku woman ( donna murphy ) ) . 
so , with his trusty crew , picard defies the federation to keep the ba'ku in their natural habitat . 
when dealing with a series with as much history as this , it's not entirely necessary to re-introduce your characters with each episode . 
this is why i believe non-fans have a hard time getting into star trek ; in order to enjoy it , one has to understand how to approach it . 
insurrection , however , does a surprisingly good job of us new aspects of the characters . 
stewart is bold as always , a magnetic screen presence and perfectly capable of holding an entire film together . 
jonathan frakes , who also directed , is funny as commander riker ; a subplot with data ( brent spiner ) discovering his lost childhood is fairly interesting ; and abraham makes a perfect star trek villain , overacting like crazy . 
frakes showed similar aptitude for direction in first contact ; insurrection is an exciting film , with some really attractive special effects and a lot of good action . 
this is apparently the first star trek film to utilize computer animation , and the result is very pleasing to the eye : particularly in the climactic scenes , in which the son'a employ a giant space ship to suck up the rings of the ba'ku planet , the special effects have a clean , impressively sharp look . 
if i have any complaint about the film , it's that it tries to take a moral stance when it's not very appropriate to do so . 
i don't think it's that big of a deal that the federation wanted to move 600 ba'ku in order to save the lives of thousands . 
better yet , why couldn't they have co-existed ? 
insurrection feels a little to light to spring these kinds of big moral questions on the audience . 
with it's inherent camp factor , the star trek series doesn't seem well-equipped to deal with issues like this . 
i prefer to just enjoy the spectacle . 
a fully loaded entertainment review - website coming in july ! 
>from ace ventura to truman burbank , jim carrey has run the whole gamut of comic , yet sympathetic , characters . 
1996's the cable guy was supposed to be his big " breakthrough " role from zany humor into darker , more dramatic acting . 
as most everyone knows , the results were , well , less-than-stellar . 
not only did the film not do so hot at the box office , but it was also panned by critics . 
as far as i know , gene siskel and i are the only ones willing to admit that we dug it . 
the first time i saw the cable guy , in theatres , i was in super critic-mode , and didn't really like it . 
however , due to the fact that hbo shows the movie every single day , i've had time to lean back , relax , and take in the film . 
and to my surprise , it grew on me . 
the plot is rather simple : broderick plays a guy named steven who befriends his cable guy , played by carrey , then is stalked by him when steven tries to break off the relationship . 
see , steven's been having some problems with his girlfriend , robin ( leslie mann ) , and he doesn't think he has any more room in his life for a new friend . 
also , some of the cable guy's antics have been creeping him out . 
carrey , as the cable guy , gives steven various aliases , which later we find out are all tv characters : larry tate , chip douglas , ricky ricardo , etc . he apparently lives in his cable van , and while many critics didn't enjoy this newer , darker , less-manic performance from carrey , i thought it was interesting and rather well-done . 
for me , its not the movie as a whole that's enjoyable , but rather several individual scenes : a karaoke jam at steven's apartment , a medieval fight at a theme restaurant , and a bathroom beating ( a la liar , liar ) , just to name a few . 
perhaps the fact that more of carrey's humorous side comes out during these scenes is what makes them so funny . 
and if you really want to see something , you've got to hear his version of jefferson airplane's " somebody to love " , sung at the aformentioned karaoke jam . 
the cable guy has its bad spots , like most any movie . 
i didn't particularly like steven's girlfriend , and i felt that more focus should have been used on the relationship between steven and his best friend . 
also , the ending , while having you fooled for a moment , is rather contrived , and somewhat dissapointing . 